# African Penguins - Spheniscus Demersus
## Members: 
Maire Magliozzi (maire.magliozzi001@umb.edu)
Marietta Majors (marietta.majors001@umb.edu)
Sarah Mondi (sarah.mondi001@umb.edu)
Yari LaraRomero (yari.lararomero001@umb.edu)

### Research Articles

#### Article 1: 
Traisnel, Gwendoline. Pichegru, Lorien. (2019) “Success Comes with Consistency in Hard times: Forging Repeatability related to Sex and Breeding Output in African Penguins”. Mar Ecol Prog Ser 608:279-289. https://www.int-res.com/articles/meps2018/608/m608p279.pdf

The first article is called, “Success Comes with Consistency in Hard times: Forging Repeatability relates to Sex and Breeding Output in African Penguins” written by Gwendoline Traisnel and Lorien Pichegru. To summarize, the research focuses on consistency when it comes to environmental changes. The research is suggesting that “penguins may increase their consistency in foraging to face poor resource conditions and potentially increase their breeding success”. One critique is that there may have been a confound during an experiment where the experimenter was testing the behavior of young African Penguins while there was only one parent of the penguins present instead of two. Realistically both parents present may be more usual instead of one which could produce unrealistic behavior. 
#### The hypothesis is that if breeding consistency and success are increased in African Penguins due to environmental changes, then their offspring will physically change and adapt.

#### Article 2: 
Saiyed, S. T., Hopper, L. M., & Cronin, K. A. (2019). Evaluating the Behavior and Temperament of African Penguins in a Non-Contact Animal Encounter Program. Animals, 9(6), 326. https://www.mdpi.com/2076-2615/9/6/326 

The second article is called, “Evaluating the Behavior and Temperament of African Penguins in a Non-Contact Animal Encounter Program” written by Sana Saiyad, Lydia Hopper, and Katherine Cronin. To summarize, this research is focused on 15 African Penguins in a program at the Lincoln Park Zoo through 16 weeks of collected behavioral data. The study investigates the behavioral impacts of the program and the penguin's individual characteristics, temperament, and voluntary participation. This research concludes that this program has a neutral or positive impact on the African Penguins. One critique that I have is that this research made clear the different types of environmental influences that are needed to look out for, like visitors, male-female African penguin ratio, and the program in general. There was no experimental bias due to the use of naturalistic observation. 
#### The hypothesis is that if African Penguins are in this encounter program and experience negative and positive effects then they will not improve outside of this encounter program. 

#### Article 3: 
Sutton G, Pichegru L, Botha JA, Kouzani AZ, Adams S, Bost CA, Arnould JPY. 2020. Multi-predator assemblages, dive type, bathymetry and sex influence foraging success and efficiency in African penguins. PeerJ 8:e9380. https://peerj.com/articles/9380/ 

The third article is called, “Multi-predator assemblages, dive type, bathymetry and sex influence foraging success and efficiency in African penguins” edited by Patricia Gandini. To summarize, this research focuses on the foraging strategies in African penguins, the changes to prey availability, and responses to climate change which is affected by the other variables. In Algoa Bay, South Africa, the African Penguins there were observed to show “sex-specific diving behaviors” and efficiency within groups and individuals. One critique is that the article used randomization when creating data to create more accuracy. This was done so they could make the data more credible by showing repetition throughout. 
#### The hypothesis is that if the presence of larger predators increases, then the prey-capture rates of African penguins will decrease, leading to a decline in their population. 

#### Article 4: 
Sharp, Stuart. (2021) “Passive acoustic monitoring of the endangered African Penguin (Spheniscus demersus) using autonomous recording units and ecoacoustic indices” IbisVolume 163, Issue 4.   https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/ibi.12970 

The fourth article is called, “Passive acoustic monitoring of the endangered African Penguin (Spheniscus demersus) using autonomous recording units and ecoacoustic indices” edited by Stuart Sharp. To summarize, this article focuses on the need for the “use of vocal signals for intra-specific vocal communication”. This study collects recordings from African Penguins during breeding season to document the relation between circadian rhythms of vocal activity and how it informs experimenters on the specific breeding activity of the colony. One critique is that the article uses randomination while dealing with the data. The article clearly states that “audio files were randomly chosen to be inspected by a second blind observer”. 
#### The hypothesis is that if using African penguins vocalizations assist in monitoring the species then it will also minimize endangerment and disturbance. 

#### Article 5: 
Parsons, N.J., Gous, T.A., Schaefer, A.M. & Vanstreels, R.E.T., 2016, “Health evaluation of African penguins (Spheniscus demersus) in southern Africa”, Onderstepoort Journal of Veterinary Research 83(1), a1147. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6238701/ 

The fifth article is called, “Health evaluation of African penguins (Spheniscus demersus) in southern Africa” written by Nola Parsons, Tertius Gous, Adam Schaefer and Ralph Vanstreels. To summarize, this research focuses on the fact that disease surveillance was declared the primary reason that African penguins are an endangered seabird. This test is about identifying what specific potential pathogens are spreading around in the species. The findings conclude that African penguins may have been exposed to conservation-significant pathogens. One critique is that internal validity was taken into account. The article mentions how other studies used internal validity by avoiding methodological errors. 
#### The hypothesis is that if there were conservation-significant pathogens spreading within African penguins then that helps studies further discover how to isolate and detect the pathogens to stop endangerment. 

### Research Design:

#### Hypothesis: If the presence of larger predators increases, then the prey-capture rates of African penguins will decrease, leading to a decline in their population. 

This study is based on the two African penguin colonies in Algoa Bay, South Africa. In order to study the impact of larger predators' presence on African penguins' prey-capture rates, we would be using both direct and indirect observation to identify changes in the population of African penguins. It is more realistic and effective to use a combination of both of these methods to track and measure their population. Researchers will further observe the relationship between the presence and potential increase/decrease of large predators and changes to the population of African penguins. It is important to take into account the past ratios of the presence of large predators to penguins so that any potential discrepencies in data accumulated in the future (pertaining to the ratio) can be properly investigated. Researchers will be using naturalistic observation to record the prey-capture rates of African penguins. The population of the penguins and predatory fish and whales will be measured by using methods specific to each species. Using naturalistic observation and indirect observation through collected video footage would be ideal so as to cause the least amount of stress to the penguins and other species in the surrounding area. The researchers will use both systematic and random time sampling procedures to get a representative sample of the two populations' natural environments. This test will be only represented to these specific two colonies in Algoa Bay due to the endangerment of African penguins. When it comes to recording behavior, researchers will use selected records of behaviors by obtaining quantitative measures of behavior and the specific increase or decrease in both populations. Overall, naturalistic observation is the best option for obtaining a quantitative analysis of the state of the African penguin population. 

### Ethics:

One potential issue that could arise would be unnecessary and excessive stress on both the population of penguins and predatory species. The consistent presence of researchers could lead to stress in the penguins, which could potenitally impact their prey-capture rates, their birthing rates, and the distribution of their population, as some penguins may navigate to other parts of the colony. The presence of humans could also potentially impact the rates of predatory fish in the area. This could potentially raise the penguin population, but it might also cause a decrease in the population of predatory fish, as they hunt in the same waters as the penguins and may leave hunting areas to avoid human contact if it causes them stress. Since we would be utilizing naturalistic observation with indirect data collection methods, we would not be causing any physical harm or discomfort to the penguins or other species. However, because we would not be utilizing any interventions, there could be moral and ethical concerns if a decrease in the already endangered population of African penguins was identified. We would also need to take into consideration the human population of South Africa so as to avoid any cultural disturbances. Researchers would attemt to keep their presence to a minimum by utilizing indirect observation in order to avoid creating disturbances for the surrounding animal species' and humans. Approval for research would be obtained and sufficient credit to any existing research utilized would be cited.
